Accessible link documentation V2 (#239)
primer/design: content/accessibility/links.mdx

---
title: Links
---

## Overview
Links are user interface elements that *navigate* you to a new place or new content. Contrast this with buttons, which are designed to *activate* a feature.

## Why?
Links can do things like help with page context, reference similar items of interest, and allow for endless connected information surfing through sites like Wikipedia. Links play a key part in your experience on the web, but without proper consideration they can be frustrating to use, skipped over, or completely unnoticed. 

> For screen reader assistive technology, links and buttons are expected to function differently from each other. If a link is activated and does not do what was expected, that can be disorienting and frustrating. 

Reviewer: I wonder if it would be helpful to provide a video example to make this even more clear.

Video idea: using the rotor, navigating through the page links

Author: I took a video of the rotor experience with links and the buttons to show their differences in expectations but I'm having trouble getting it to display on the doc site properly. I don't know that our docs site is set up for videos? I'm reluctant to put a GIF on there since people can't stop it. If anyone knows how to get a video working on docs site or if it's allow I'm happy to know!

In lieu of a video I can always take screen shots of the link list and button list to help provide context. Thoughts?

A common way a screen reader might navigate the page is by going through a list of all the links on the page. Without context, "read more" or "click here" links won't be very helpful. 

People who have low or colorblind vision may have trouble identifying links that just use color to distinguish between plain text, this is why keeping the underline styling on links within body text is important for identification.

## How to test links
- Check a link's function. If clicking a link instead activates a feature on the page, it should be a `<button>`, and vice versa. 
- Check a link's purpose. If you can't get an idea of where a link will take you based on the link text alone, the link text needs updates. 

> - [Check a link's contrast](https://webaim.org/resources/contrastchecker/). Links being text supersede the widget contrast requirement, which means all links need to pass 4.5:1 against the background color that they are on. 

Author: ```suggestion
- [Check a link's contrast](https://webaim.org/resources/contrastchecker/). Because links are text-based, they need to pass 4.5:1 against the background color that they are on.
```

> - In body text, like a markdown file, check to make sure that all links have underline styling. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- In body text, like a Markdown file, check to make sure that all links have underline styling. 
```

## Guidelines

### For designers

> - Make sure you're using the proper accent color for links in your mocks. Double check the color you're using if you're using it on anything other than a white background. For more context on color, check out our [Color | Interface guidelines (primer.style)](https://primer.style/design/foundations/color).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Make sure you use the correct accent color for links in your designs. Double check the color you're using if you're using it on anything other than a white background. For more context on color, check out our [color documentation](https://primer.style/design/foundations/color).
```

- Make sure a link's purpose can be understood on its own without the surrounding context in concise words. 
- Links should always be underlined if they're in body text. 
- Links should look like links, not buttons, except in rare circumstances, like calls to action. If the action takes you somewhere rather than doing something on the page, it should be semantically coded as a link regardless of the visual style.

> <DoDontContainer stacked>

Reviewer: The Do/Don't area was not visually clear to me. Could we leverage the [Doctocat content template](https://www.figma.com/file/YQT3nlmvSdZRPBnkDXvTFk/?node-id=0%3A1) (see below), to create more clearly distinguished guidelines? 
![Stacked template guidance](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/7228610/160145884-0239d617-d76a-4a5d-b3a8-2b56beafedbd.png)

> - Links should look like links, not buttons. In rare circumstances, links look like buttons (like calls to action). It's important to make sure that if the action takes you somewhere rather than does something on the page, it's semantically coded as a link regardless of the visual style.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Links should look like links, not buttons, except in rare circumstances, like calls to action. If the action takes you somewhere rather than doing something on the page, it should be semantically coded as a link regardless of the visual style.
```

    <Do>

>         <Caption>Be sure to underline links in paragraphs and sentences</Caption>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        <Caption>Underline links in paragraphs and sentences</Caption>
```

>         <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/40274682/157987879-8762ad9c-c287-4360-b55f-9d85658e874b.png" alt="Appropriate underlined links in a GitHub issues post"/>

Reviewer 2: This screenshot and the one that follows are showing a character, I assume it's a plugin. Can you update them to not show it?

Author: Good call. I've learned to complete tune that one out. I don't know where it's coming from 😅 . Will fix!

    </Do>
    <Dont>

>         <Caption>Don't underline every link, or forget to underline any links in paragraphs and sentences</Caption>

Reviewer 2: My [previous comment](https://github.com/primer/design/pull/239#discussion_r832045049) wasn't addressed here, can you clarify?

Author: Eep! I pushed a fix to this (so I thought) but now I can't find it and can't remember what I wrote 😭 . Will fix!

Author: @yaili hopefully my update in vercel is more clear 🙂

>         <Caption>Underline every link, or forget to underline any links in paragraphs and sentences</Caption>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        <Caption>Don't underline every link, or forget to underline any links in paragraphs and sentences</Caption>
```

Reviewer 2: I don't actually understand this don't. Sounds like 2 separate dont's. Which is the image portraying?

        <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/40274682/157987884-d1ba14ca-9844-44af-b648-5236dc513a16.png" alt="GitHub issues post with no underlined links"/>
    </Dont>
</DoDontContainer>

### For engineers
- Use the Primer link components:

> 	- [Primer ViewComponents | Link](https://primer.style/view-components/components/link)
> 	- [Primer React | Link](https://primer.style/react/Link)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	- [Link in Primer ViewComponents](https://primer.style/view-components/components/link)
	- [Link in Primer React](https://primer.style/react/Link)
```

- Don't override the link styling provided in the components

> - Make sure links receive our global focus indicator styling when navigating the page with a keyboard. (Reference: [Focus management | Primer](https://primer.style/design/accessibility/focus-management))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Make sure links receive our global focus indicator styling when navigating the page with a keyboard (reference: [Focus management](https://primer.style/design/accessibility/focus-management))
```

- Avoid adding side effects to link click events. Links should navigate, not affect the page.

## Common mistakes
- Only adding an underline to a link when it has focus or is hovered over

> - Adding underlines to *every link on the page*. For example, a navigation list is a list of links but it is not required to have all of these navigational links underlined because the intent is understood and an underline is not needed to identify the interactive nature of the control.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Underlining every link on the page. For example, a navigation list is a list of links but navigational links don't have to be underlined because the intent is understood and an underline is not needed to identify the interactive nature of the control.
```

## Additional resources

> - [Color to Distinguish Links from Text](https://dequeuniversity.com/class/visual-design/color/distinguish-links-from-text) (This link to Deque requires a subscription to access the content.)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Color to Distinguish Links from Text](https://dequeuniversity.com/class/visual-design/color/distinguish-links-from-text) (requires a subscription to access the content)
```

> - Accessibility Insights plugin > Assessment > 7. Links

Reviewer 2: Link missing

Author: I'm not sure how to link this one since it's inside of a plugin. Should I link to the Accessibility Insights website or the Chrome plugin download page? 
```suggestion
- [Accessibility Insights plugin](https://accessibilityinsights.io/en/) > Assessment > 7. Links
```

Reviewer 2: in that case I think we should explain that here, for example:

```
- [Accessibility Insights plugin](https://accessibilityinsights.io/en/) > Assessment > 7. Links: With the Accessibility Insights plugin installed, open the plugin, visit the **Assessment** option and select **7. Links**
```

It's not perfect but it's a bit more clear?

Author: ```suggestion
- [Accessibility Insights plugin](https://accessibilityinsights.io/en/): With the Accessibility Insights plugin installed, open the plugin, visit the **Assessment** option and select **7. Links**
```

- Make sure a link's purpose can be understood on its own without the surrounding context in concise words. 
- Links should always be underlined if they're in body text. 
- Links should look like links, not buttons, except in rare circumstances, like calls to action. If the action takes you somewhere rather than doing something on the page, it should be semantically coded as a link regardless of the visual style.

<DoDontContainer>
    <Do>
        <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/40274682/160483376-a88eb64f-ce80-4a11-93b5-6d882b1970eb.png" alt="Markdown paragraph with descriptive links"/>
        <Caption>Be descriptive with your links so that they can stand alone and be understood.</Caption>
    </Do>
    <Dont>
        <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/40274682/160474793-2fd3085f-0813-43ed-8b43-c1a5f14aaea9.png" alt="Markdown paragraph with links like 'Click here' and 'find out more'" />

>         <Caption>Don't don't use generic terms like 'click here' that can't be understood out of context.</Caption>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        <Caption>Don't use generic terms like 'click here' that can't be understood out of context.</Caption>
```

    </Dont>
</DoDontContainer>

<DoDontContainer>
    <Do>
        <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/40274682/160474794-06a75b30-06d3-475e-863f-605e8a6dad72.png" alt="Underlined username link in issue subheading"/>
        <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/40274682/160474798-175a588f-4a03-4b42-8787-0af13bc71311.png" alt="Underlined community guidelines link in text under a markdown comment text area." />
        <Caption>Underline links in paragraphs and sentences</Caption>
    </Do>
    <Dont>
        <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/40274682/160474800-b505369e-1730-4c14-b426-70b5bd016a6c.png" alt="Issue subheader with none of the links underlined"/>
        <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/40274682/160474802-3fe6b792-3c79-40ce-a443-c2279a3a785b.png" alt="GitHub commnuity guideline link not underlined in sentence."/>
        <Caption>Don't forget to underline links in paragraphs and sentences</Caption>
    </Dont>
</DoDontContainer>

### For engineers

> - Use the Primer link components:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Use Primer link components:
```
